getting reliable information out of Gaza
has become increasingly difficult
conditions for journalists are dangerous
and only a few people have made it out
of the territory Garen journalist hajam
baloa is one of them and we'll talk to
him in just a moment first though here's
a short profile including a few images
he recorded from his journey out of the
territory ham baloa a longtime reporter
and DW contributor since 2012 he's
covered many conflicts between is is and
Hamas but he says this war is like
nothing else he's experienced he's had
to strike a balance between objective
reporting worries about his family and
his personal feelings as a
gazin this is footage he took of his
neighborhood for him it was clear he
could not return the area has been under
Fire since October 7th the day of
hamas's Terror attacks on Israel ham
moved South and kept trying to get the
news out amid power outages and with no
internet he took this photo of a boy
struggling to stay in
touch ham took with him just a few
keepsakes like this leaflet dropped by
the Israeli Army warning people to flee
the north he caught the leaflet from a
rooftop in a refugee
camp on November 3rd he took this
footage of his long wait at the Rafa
Crossing to enter Egypt and then made
his way to Jordan one of the few lucky
ones to get
out he says he feels guilty leaving his
wider Family behind as well as all the
other Gins who have nowhere to
go well hajim belala is now safe in
Jordan's capital Aman and joins us now
welcome back hajim um how do you feel
about being out of Gaza
now it's a mixed feeling to be honest um
um I'm I'm happy for myself my family as
well especially my children that we are
out and safe we are not under
bombardment as we used we are uh able to
reach water and and and and have uh good
food um but in the same time it's very
hard for me to uh to leave um um my my
rest of the rest of my family or
extended family brothers and sisters and
father and the journey itself what was
that like and and how was it at the Rafa
border
crossing the journey was very tough and
very hard we I learned about myself
being on the list around 4:00 a.m. um
the day I left on November 3 um um I
moved out of um of the refugee that I
stayed at anat refugee camp in the
central Gaza strap I uh I was struggling
to uh to get some gasoline for my car to
be able to drive as I was um out of it
um luckily the day before I secured 4
lad with a very high price um that made
me able to drive down to Rafa uh where I
arrived there about 7 um 7:30 in the
morning and till about 700 p.m. in the
same day I crossed out of the Egyptian
terminal plus 6 to 7 hours driving to
Cairo um till we stayed there for um uh
for a week then uh last Friday I came to
a man here the um what you said there
about having to get the the the petrol
that's just a very Vivid reminder of
even if you get the good news that you
can get out your your troubles are only
just sort of starting given the the the
conditions that are in the territory at
the
moment well the situation in Gaza is is
very hard I'm still attached to the
place but because of two things main
mainly is like because of my family are
there my house is there probably it is
destroyed uh as it's part of the the
grand Invasion area um secondly because
I am a journalist and I'm keeping an eye
on it and I'm still reporting um um and
I'm you know trying to do my best from
here from Aman communicating with people
and there the situation is miserable uh
um just like half an hour ago there is
um a new Blackout um as the
telecommunication companies announced um
no longer uh ability to uh operate the
the the stations and the towers so uh we
are not able to communicate with OD
people there or even they can't
communicate with each other right and so
um I I know it's uh that you're still in
touch with people and things are getting
worse or are people just sort of uh
resigned to uh to a a terrible situation
continuing to be
terrible well it is terrible from day
one um but I mean as the War continued
for longer time things are getting
harder uh little availability of goods
little availability of water uh uh uh
people run out of of cash um prices
raised up um some some items like to uh
four five times or even more in some um
in some some items um uh people are uh
more people are killed more casualties
uh hospitals are not able to treat
patients um there is a huge load uh I'm
I'm communicating with people it's very
hard to connect them even with the
availability of communication in theory
but reaching them with with a lack of
electricity and and and and uh um um and
signals you know like it's very hard I I
try like 20 times at least to reach uh
someone in Gaza um there is no internet
um uh today I talked to my brother there
and he says like the prices at least for
for the food uh four times than it used
to be when I you were there tell me how
people as you talk to to people uh in
Gaza how do they regard Hamas is there
widespread support or or anger at
them well uh in Gaza people are divided
um uh I'm not telling a secret there are
some voices criticizing Hamas and
climing it for what happened uh and they
say that out loud on and on social media
whether videos or texts I saw many
tweets many posts on on Facebook and and
some some um uh on Instagram um some uh
WhatsApp groups uh I talk to people
personally when I was there or now when
I'm out I'm I'm talking to people still
some people are criticizing Hamas but in
the same time there are other people who
are supporting uh uh what they call it
resistance and they blame Israel this is
what Israel is not this is because of
Israel is doing it maybe they are not
supporting what happened on on October 7
and and but still that they blame Israel
for what's happening right now in Gaza
okay thanks for that ha and good talking
to you as ever um glad you're safe um I
look forward to speaking to you
again